<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [physics.optics](#physics.optics) [Total: 1]


<div id='physics.optics'></div>

# physics.optics [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [Single-nanoparticle detection using quasi-bound states in the continuum supported by silicon metasurfaces](https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.12135)
*Keisuke Watanabe,Samuel Crowther,Masanobu Iwanaga,Frank Vollmer,Tadaaki Nagao*

Main category: physics.optics

TL;DR: Error


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: Error

Method: Error

Result: Error

Conclusion: Error

Abstract: The detection of single particles or molecules represents a critical milestone in the development of biosensing technologies. Recently developed optical sensors based on quasi-bound states in the continuum (qBICs) have primarily focused on detecting global refractive index changes, aiming to simultaneously enhance both refractive index sensitivity and quality ($Q$) factors. However, sensors capable of resolving local refractive index perturbations, such as the binding of a nanometer-sized molecule on a surface, remain elusive and have not yet been demonstrated in BIC geometries due to the limited $Q$ factors and relatively large mode volumes. Here, we demonstrate low-contrast BIC metasurfaces that can perform sensing with a virus-sized single-nanoparticle resolution. The qBIC resonance operating at the critical coupling condition exhibits an experimental $Q$ factor of 4.5 x 10$^4$ in heavy water. The strong interaction between the localized electric field and polystyrene nanoparticles with a diameter of 100 nm enable the experimental observation of step-like resonance wavelength shifts, serving as signatures of individual particle binding events. Furthermore, binding-induced modifications to the qBIC resonance alter the optical confinement and asymmetry factor, inducing changes not only in the resonance wavelength but also in the linewidth and amplitude with single-particle sensitivity. Combined with position-insensitive response and free-space accessible features, low-contrast BIC metasurfaces provide a user-friendly platform for next-generation single-molecule sensing integrated with microfluidic systems.

</details>
